Title: Using Job Arrays
Date: 8/19/2024
Authors: Nick Carter
slug: leaving-the-lab

All good things must end, and that includes everyone's time in the
Eddy lab. To help make sure that all your work is preserved after you
leave, and to help keep us out of trouble with Harvard and our funding
agencies, please follow the following checklist as you get ready to
leave:

1. Copy any relevant data/code/results from your RC home directory,
laptop, or other computing devices into your directory under
/n/eddy_lab/users.

2. Work with your mentor/supervisor to determine what of your
work/data needs to stay accessible after you leave and copy/transfer
that data somewhere group-accessible, such as /n/eddy_lab/data.

3. If you have a lab laptop or other computing device, back it up to
an external hard disk.

4. Discuss with Sean whether you'll be taking your laptop or other lab
computer with you or whether it should be turned in when you go.
Harvard tracks computing equipment for four years, so anything younger
than that needs to stay at Harvard.  HHMI only tracks equipment worth
more than $15,000, so it's unlikely that there will be tracking issues
on the HHMI side.

5. The last thing you should do on the research computing machines is
to cd to /n/eddy_lab/users and run
/n/eddy_lab/software/prep_for_archive.py <yourusername>.  This will go
through your home directory and mark everything in it accessible to
the entire lab.  It will then move your home directory under
/n/eddy_lab/Lab and create a tarfile of your data there.  Doing this
will make it easy for us to archive your data to tape so that it costs
less to maintain but is still accessible if we need it.

6. Return any lab "loaner" laptops to Nick.  If you aren't taking it
with you, turn in lab-owned computing equipment to Ariane (or her
successor) to be re-installed. Turn in any notebooks to Ariane as well
so that they can be scanned to satisfy Harvard's research retention
rules.

7. Enjoy the rest of your life, and come back to visit!
